.TH DCUTIL 1 "11 APRIL 2018" "" "General Commands Manual"
.SH NAME
.B dcutil
\-- A utility tool for developers to help with their local developments.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B dcutil
[options] [commands/targets] [arguments]
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B dcutil
is an utility program written in conjunction with Bash and Make. The main objective of
.B dcutil
is to setup an organic workflow for project operations running on Docker containers. The name
.B dcutil
is short for docker compose utility. Docker-compose is a great tool to automate and build services, and
.B dcutil
adds some utility tasks to make running projects with docker-compose a little bit easier.
.SH OPTIONS
Options are set as the first argument. One of the most important option is the name of the project or projects. This is
most likely the only option used for most part. Almost all available commands require this option.
.TP
.B "[ p=project / project / 5 / 1:2:3 ]"
This is a unique flag. This can be called many ways. The most verbose way to use this option would be to use the
.B p=project
style. You can also omit the p= and simply type the name of the project. You can also use the index value of the project.
To find the index value, simply issue the command `dcutil projects` and it will print all the available projects along
with its key. Use a single key to call one project, or multiple keys to call multiple projects. To use multiple keys,
you must use
.B :
as a delimiter. For example
.B 1:2:5
would call projects asscociated with keys 1, 2 and 5 respectively.
.TP
.B "-q --quiet"
Use the -q flag to reduce verbosity. Keep in mind, -q does not necessarily silent everything, however it reduces the
verbosity level to a minimum.
.TP
.B "-u --update"
Check and update
.B dcutil.
.TP
.B "-r --remove"
Uninstall
.B dcutil
from your machine.
.TP
.B "-h  --help"
Use the -h flag to call the manual page.
.TP
.B "--man"
See -h. You can also use man dcutil to invoke the manual page directly.
.TP
.B --ip
Print the machine's private IP.
.TP
.B "-v --version"
Print the version info.
.TP
.B "-q --quiet"
Run
.B dcutil
in silent mode. Redirects all stdout and stderr to /dev/null.
.TP
.B --var
This option can be used to get the value for
.B dcutil_script_dir, dcutil_script, dcutil_libs
and
.B dcutil_root.
(designed for internal use.)
.TP
.B "--set-libs"
Use the --set-libs flag to change the location of the dcutil's libs folder.
.SH COMMANDS
Commands are set of actions defined with make targets. You can run all docker-compose commands with
.B dcutil.
Simply prepend the command with dc_ and pass any arguments as you normally would. Please look at the usage section for
examples. You can also set your own commands via the projects custom makefile. To run custom commands, you will need to
prepend it with double underscores.
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
Get a lit of all the commands:
.B dcutil commands
.TP
Get a list of all the commands including project specific user defined commands:
.B dcutil 5 commands
.TP
Show all projects with their indexes:
.B dcutil projects
.TP
Use the special build command to build multiple projects:
.B dcutil 5:6:10 build
.TP
Run docker-compose down on all available projects:
.B dcutil --all dc_down
.TP
Run a command inside a docker-compose service container:
.B dcutil 1 dc_cmd cnt=node cnt_shell=bash
.TP
Please refer to the github page @ https://github.com/faiyaz7283/dcutil#dcutil for more details and examples.
.SH BUGS
Please report all bugs at https://github.com/faiyaz7283/dcutil/issues.
.SH AUTHOR
Faiyaz Haider <faiyaz7283@gmail.com>
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR "make" "(1), " "bash" "(1), " "docker-compose" " --help "